---
title: notes from Tokyo, March 2024
permalink: posts/{{ title | slug }}/index.html
date: '2024-03-24'
tags: [travel]
---
- Tokyo in March is a lovely time, if still a little on the cold side for my liking. Oddly, I saw much fewer sakura than I did last year, despite being there earlier in March in 2023. I remembered being cold then, so this time I brought the Uniqlo down jacket that I normally wear in winter. Came in handy when the wind got crazy. On my last day, wind gusts were so high that trains were travelling slower and department store doors were closed against the wind. You could feel it buffeting you as you walked.
- I had a great experience flying Zipair! Service and comfort on board are really indistinguishable from a full-service airline, and the food was pretty good (the curry rice I had on the way back was delicious). I do much prefer to fly into Haneda, so it’s a tradeoff I have to weigh up.
- My agenda this time round was really specific: to watch stage plays and the Haikyuu movie, and to shop for secondhand blurays, CDs and merch. I also dropped by a couple of collab cafes. I had the most amazing time ♥ this is the first time I’ve been able to attend stage plays in Japan again post-pandemic and butai continues to be the most magical experience.
- Tokyo is so sprawling. I forget how far apart neighbourhoods are. I walked so much and also climbed so many more flights of stairs than usual that Apple Health shot me a notification about my unusual climbing activity.
- My Curry Shokudo is the most tasty curry chain I’ve tried in Tokyo.
- Note to self for next time: many museums are closed on Mondays (I should have known this on hindsight, but alas).
