---
title: notes, 3 mar 2024
permalink: posts/{{ title | slug }}/index.html
date: '2024-03-03'
tags: [notes]
---

1. I find music very distracting when I’m concentrating, so for years I’ve listened only to lofi playlists at my computer, but [myNoise][1] has changed that. Since discovering this gem of a sound generator website it has become a pinned tab and I listen to it all day every day. The quality of the sounds is so good and the variety is incredible so you won’t get bored. I really like it.
2. I recently bought a Logitech Keys to Go keyboard and while I wouldn’t call it a great typing experience, it’s an absolute gamechanger for typing when you’re on the move. I used to carry my Apple Magic Keyboard around for this purpose because it’s the lightest keyboard I own, but it doesn’t connect automatically to your devices when you switch it on (the Logitech does), and for portability, the Logitech just blows it out of the water. I can’t believe how light and tiny this thing is.
3. I watched *Farewell My Concubine* this week, thanks to the Criterion Channel bringing it in, and it was stunning.
4. I’ve been reading [What You Are Looking For Is In The Library][2]. It’s really lovely and healing. I enjoy this genre of cosy fiction a lot.
5. I’ve been going down a rabbit hole reading about air crashes on [Admiral Cloudberg’s excellent blog][3]. This really isn’t as morbid or terrifying as it might sound, because my takeaway so far has been that aviation safety has improved tremendously over the years, and that a *lot* of mistakes need to pile up against a lot of built in redundancies for a plane to fatally crash.

[1]:	https://mynoise.net/
[2]:	https://bookshop.org/p/books/what-you-are-looking-for-is-in-the-library-original-michiko-aoyama/19720383
[3]:	https://admiralcloudberg.medium.com/
