---
title: using Publii
permalink: posts/{{ title | slug }}/index.html
date: '2024-09-22'
tags: [tech]
---

When I first started to blog in earnest again last year, I wanted something as low-friction as possible to get started, which was how I wound up on [micro.blog](https://micro.blog/). It was a great way to get myself off the ground: easy to use, simple and good-looking theme options, and the whole ecosystem built around micro.blog felt very accessible and low-pressure.

After a year though, I have a better handle on what works for me, and I felt like I needed a change for several reasons:

1. micro.blog is a social network as well as a blog platform, and I didn’t need that. In fact, being in a position to receive replies from anyone on the platform made me feel a little too exposed, although in reality it wasn’t like I was deluged with replies. But I am the sort of person on the internet, I have learned, who prefers to disable the comments section; you can email me if you really want to say something.
2. Cost. At US$50/year for the basic tier that I was on, micro.blog isn’t bank-breakingly expensive, but I was aware that what I needed didn’t actually need to cost that much.

So I went looking at alternatives, specifically static site generators. I saw that they were widely used by many bloggers and I felt that if what I needed was just text on a page with the occasional image, there was no reason to go down the full-fledged CMS route. However, I took one look at the technical requirements of Hugo, Jekyll and Eleventy, saw words like ‌*You must also be comfortable working from the command line* and ‌*requires Node.js*, and noped out right away.

I’m reasonably technologically proficient. I can find my way around HTML and CSS, and I have installed Linux distros and managed them from the command line, but I’m not a programmer and I’m pretty sure I’m not the target audience of these SSGs. Surely, I thought, something in between Hugo and Wordpress had to exist for people at my level of comfort with tech. And happily, I found [Publii](https://getpublii.com/).

Publii is a static CMS that is dead simple and a joy to use. It comes with a selection of very nice templates and creates your entire site offline, so it lives in a folder of HTML files on your computer, which gives me great joy. I love knowing that my whole site is just there. I’m not tied anywhere. I could zip up the whole thing and upload it wherever I choose. But Publii also integrates with platforms like Github Pages or Netlify to push your site online, and the tutorial is so good that even if you have no idea what that last line meant, you can easily follow their help page to get yourself set up. I love that the editor can be in plain Markdown or go full WYSIWIG to handle image placement and sizing if needed. Most of all I love that Publii is free, open source, and actively updated!

I spent last weekend getting myself set up and importing all my old posts to Publii, which went very smoothly. It now costs me nothing except the domain name to run this site, since Netlify’s free plan is more than enough for my needs. I am super happy with my website stack now. It is so satisfying to have a home on the internet set up just the way I like it.
