---
title: adventures in DNS services
permalink: posts/{{ title | slug }}/index.html
date: '2024-11-03'
tags: [tech]
---

I went down a rabbit hole earlier this month exploring the wonderful world of DNS-level ad and tracker blocking. This was triggered by finally getting round to connecting all my devices to the same home VPN with Tailscale on my Synology NAS, which allowed me to very easily set the same DNS resolver for everything I use, since Tailscale allows you to set and forget your DNS servers via their admin panel. I didn’t want to make changes to the DNS at router level since I live with family members who depend on the internet for their work, and who might not want me messing with their DNS settings. Plus, using Tailscale also has the advantage of keeping your DNS server consistent when you’re out of the house too, as long as you remain connected to your tailnet.

After testing out [NextDNS](https://nextdns.io/) and rolling my own [Pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net/) for a while, I finally settled with [Control D](https://controld.com/), which I really, *really* like. I didn’t feel technically confident enough to manage a Pi-hole long-term (though it worked well enough when I tried it, which was exciting!) and for the same price as NextDNS, Control D offers more, plus it has a killer feature on its next pricing tier: redirects. You can set geographical redirects for a whole plethora of sites, similar to how a VPN functions, but way more convenient because you can set different locations for different services without having to manually change your VPN for every one.

I’ve used redirects with great success both to get around geoblocking as well as to redirect sites where I don’t want them to know my real location (like if you set Instagram to Japan, I get served Japanese ads and stuff instead, which I quite enjoy and is infinitely preferable to them knowing where I really am). Control D does put a big warning upfront that this feature is not guaranteed to work and you shouldn’t sign up if redirects are your main use case. It has worked flawlessly for me so far, but their caveat is worth noting.

Also partly related to my DNS service adventures: [Chrome finally killing off Manifest V3](https://www.theverge.com/2024/10/15/24270981/google-chrome-ublock-origin-phaseout-manifest-v3-ad-blocker) and by extension (pun unintended) uBlock Origin, making Chromium browsers unpleasant to use unless I have another reliable way to block ads/trackers on them. I typically don’t like to use Chromium-based browsers anyway, but sometimes you’re just forced into using Chrome when sites don’t work right in Firefox or Safari.

I used to run Adguard systemwide which did work as well for Chrome and its ilk, but I was curious about DNS-level blocking because it would save my computer resources from having to run Adguard, and so far Control D is working really well for me.
