---
title: hello 11ty
permalink: posts/{{ title | slug }}/index.html
date: '2024-12-24'
tags: [how i do things, tech]
---

Well, after declaring [just three months ago](https://chencuifen.com/posts/using-publii/) that [11ty](https://www.11ty.dev/) was too complicated for me and I am very happy with my Publii setup, I decided that I was going to make it a project to figure out 11ty. Why? Honestly, for no other reason than it’s there, and as I have mentioned a number of times on this blog, I am a tinkerer. 

There wasn’t any particular pain point pushing me away from Publii. It is really a pleasure to use and for the most part it just works out of the box for simple site generation. If anything, perhaps the simplicity itself was one of the factors that made me restless. There were things I wanted to customise about the default template that felt more finicky with a GUI-style site builder like Publii than it would have with code, and my niggling curiosity about 11ty wouldn’t go away. I kept seeing it touted as a very beginner-friendly SSG, and I felt that I *could* learn it, if I put in some effort. The last time I kept a regular blog in my teens, I hand-coded all my HTML and CSS. Even if I wasn’t going to become an expert web dev, I thought I definitely had the capacity to at least grasp the basics of 11ty, once I overcame my natural instinct to nope out of any coding talk that didn’t immediately make sense to me.

So I got down to it. I downloaded some starter templates, looked up a whole bunch of tutorials, opened a terminal and practised making and serving simple sites using 11ty. And it was definitely a learning curve. but it was *fun*! I haven’t hand-coded a website in nearly two decades. This time round, I relied heavily on existing templates, but still the feeling of opening up the layout files and hand-tweaking the CSS made me feel so satisfied. 

The biggest thing that 11ty has going for it is as far as I’m concerned, and one reason I was determined to put in so much effort with it, is that all your posts are simply a bunch of markdown files in a folder. It feels like I’ve been on a data ownership journey that has now come to a satisfying pinnacle: from being able to export my posts from a CMS, to having my Publii posts exist in HTML files which are readable, but not plain text (and I do always [come back to plain text](https://chencuifen.com/posts/on-plain-text-and-sacrifices/)), to, finally, having my posts in plain text.

I’m finally at a point where I am happy enough with my 11ty site to deploy it and make it live, so here it is! I would still wholeheartedly recommend Publii for anyone looking to build a static site, but I am really pleased with my setup now, and it feels good to have learned a new skill. I am still very, very far from being proficient with 11ty or any other SSG, but I can at least now go through the basic motions of serving up a website from the command line and deploying it online, and if the me from three months ago heard this, she would have been astounded.