---
title: notes, 10 dec 2024
date: '2024-12-10'
tags: [notes, tech]
permalink: posts/{{ title | slug }}/index.html
---

- The fabric lining at the bottom of my sofa had been shedding pretty badly for a while, which I wasn’t expecting, considering my sofa’s only four years old. I emailed Castlery about it last Tuesday afternoon. To my surprise, they replied right away and by Thursday morning, they had come to replace the fabric. Really quick and fuss-free, and I was only charged a nominal fee. Going by the speed of their response and my dipstick survey of Castlery sofa owners, their self-destructing sofa fabric does seem to be a very common problem, but I have to hand it to them to swift service recovery.
- My ears finally couldn’t take Spotify anymore and I resubscribed to Apple Music. I was using it for a long time but cancelled when I started collecting my own music, figuring I could use streaming mainly as a supplement while my ears chiefly enjoy my high-quality FLACs, but as it turns out, listening only to lossless music for a while really ruins Spotify for you.
- I love my Plex setup, but I am also an inveterate tinkerer, so I spent some time this week exploring [Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org/) as well because I like the idea of having a FOSS alternative in case Plex enshittifies one day. Everything is up and running and it was fun to set up! For now Plex serves my needs better—especially with Plexamp, as I haven’t found anything for Jellyfin music that even comes close to holding a candle—but I’ll keep Jellyfin around as a backup media server.
- I recently caved and bought a ROG Ally X because there are too many games I want to play that won’t run on my iMac with all of its 8gb RAM, and aren’t available on Switch. It came with a 3-month trial of the Xbox Game Pass, and I downloaded Diablo IV immediately to try out. It’s a ton of fun! I’ve been super enjoying Baldur’s Gate 3 but Diablo IV reminded me of how fun it is to just switch off my brain and whack some monsters for a while without having to solve puzzles or make game-changing moral decisions.
- Two posts I read recently that resonated, and seemed in accidental conversation with each other: [For The Love of God, Make Your Own Website](https://aftermath.site/website-musk-twitter-facebook-internet) and [The Free Web](https://thehistoryoftheweb.com/the-free-web/). Both are about putting something of yourself online, something genuine and real and *you*, on your own terms. Both really spoke to me and why I’m here writing on this website. This is my space, and it just feels really good to have a space of my own.

## a note on notes
One thing I miss about micro.blog, that I haven’t found with any other blog service, is the way it allowed you to just post a sentence or two without having to put down a subject line. It was like tweeting (before the days of X) but better, since it was on your own blog. I enjoyed having somewhere to throw small life updates and things as they came up, like thought confetti.

My current blog setup with Publii doesn’t really allow for this. But it occurred to me that nothing was stopping me from just gathering all the things I would’ve livetweeted and sharing them in a compilation post when the list reaches a critical mass, so here we are. My thought confetti for December so far.

“Thought confetti” was what I called the draft of this post, but eventually I axed it because no one reading that post title is going to know what it contains. “Notes” is boring, but at least you clicked on this knowing exactly what it was (I hope).
