---
title: notes, 16 may 2025
permalink: posts/{{ title | slug }}/index.html
date: '2025-05-16'
tags: [notes, writing]
---

My ankle is much better, mobility-wise at least. I got it checked out and X-rayed after ten days, at the urging of very concerned colleagues, and thankfully I hadn’t broken or fractured any bones. But while I can pretty much walk normally(ish) again, I still haven’t recovered the flexibility and full range of motion I used to have. So I haven’t been able to properly resume my usual exercise and yoga routine for a month now, and as a great creature of habit I find it disconcertingly disruptive.

I did manage to head to KL over the Vesak Day weekend, which was a fun adventure! Though I went to watch a concert and was staying opposite the venue, so I pretty much lived in a bubble of hotel/mall/concert venue for two days, which is probably less adventure than most people get up to on a KL weekend but suited my ankle fine.

While I was there, I got a personalised rejection from my last story submission. This sounds like such a cheesy cliche, but you often hear writers say that a nice personal rejection can feel just as good if not better (I know it sounds nuts, but roll with it) than an acceptance, and when I read that email I understood why; it really wasn’t necessary to send a rejection email at all (a lot of places don’t bother, and I had simply assumed already that I was being rejected), much less one that took the trouble to tell me what they liked about my story. I felt so encouraged.

The thing about writing is, once you’ve got the thing written and sent out, your work is *done*. The rest is up to the whims of the publishing market, which has nothing much to do with you and your writing. But knowing this is totally different from feeling it, and for some reason, this time round, I really felt it. I felt very at peace with rejection because I was proud of the work I’d done, whether or not it eventually finds a home. Maybe one day it will. Maybe it won’t. I still think what’s important is that I did the work. I keep thinking about the relationship I have with writing, and what I want it to be, and how to make sure I don’t just fizzle out of something I love to do. I want to find a model of success in writing that isn’t constant output and publication. I don’t think I can sustain that relationship in a healthy way otherwise.

I do like having this space of my own here, and I’m glad I have a low-pressure way to continue writing in public, no matter how many (few) people are reading it.
